RHIDP-14342: Admin guide documents catalog entity picker usage for Orchestrator workflows (#2547)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/extend_orchestrator-in-rhdh/proc-configure-catalog-entity-picker-for-orchestrator-workflows.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-catalog-entity-picker-for-orchestrator-workflows_{context}"]
= Configure a catalog entity picker for Orchestrator workflows

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure a scaffolder template with a catalog entity picker and output links for the `orchestrator:workflow:run` action so that users select a target entity and receive navigation links on the template completion page after a workflow runs.

.Prerequisites

* You have enabled the `scaffolder-backend-module-orchestrator` plugin. For more information, see xref:configure-orchestrator-plugins_{context}[].
* You have deployed a serverless workflow and it is available in the Orchestrator.
* The target catalog entities exist in the {product-short} catalog.

.Procedure

. In your scaffolder template, add an `EntityPicker` parameter field to the `parameters` section:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  parameters:
    - title: Select target entity
      properties:
        targetEntity:
          title: Target Entity
          type: string
          description: Select the catalog entity to associate with this workflow run.
          ui:field: EntityPicker

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
Optionally, use `ui:options.catalogFilter` to limit which catalog entities users can select:

[source,yaml]
----
        targetEntity:
          title: Target Entity
          type: string
          description: Select the catalog entity to associate with this workflow run.
          ui:field: EntityPicker
          ui:options:
            catalogFilter:
              kind: Component
----
```

+

> The `EntityPicker` field renders a searchable dropdown that lists available catalog entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected value is returned as a catalog entity reference string (for example, `component:default/my-service`), which you can pass directly to the `target_entity` input (for example, `${{ parameters.targetEntity }}` or `${{ parameters.target_entity }}`).
```

> The `EntityPicker` field renders a searchable dropdown that lists available catalog entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `EntityPicker` field renders a searchable dropdown that lists available catalog entities.

The selected value is returned as a catalog entity reference string (for example, `component:default/my-service`), which you can pass directly to the `target_entity` input (for example, `${{ parameters.targetEntity }}` or `${{ parameters.target_entity }}`).
```

. In the `steps` section, pass the selected entity to the `target_entity` input of the `orchestrator:workflow:run` action:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  steps:
    - id: runWorkflow
      name: Run the workflow
      action: orchestrator:workflow:run
      input:
        workflow_id: <your_workflow_id>
        target_entity: ${{ parameters.targetEntity }}
        parameters:
          name: ${{ parameters.name }}
----
+
Where:
+
`workflow_id`::: Replace `<your_workflow_id>` with the ID of the serverless workflow to run.

> `target_entity`::: The action resolves this value from the entity picker selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`target_entity`::: The action resolves this value from the entity picker selection. Use a catalog entity reference in `kind:namespace/name` form (for example, `component:default/my-service`). Other formats can produce incorrect output URLs.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-catalog-entity-picker-for-orchestrator-workflows_{context}"]
= Configure a catalog entity picker for Orchestrator workflows

[role="_abstract"]

> You can configure a scaffolder template with a catalog entity picker and output links for the `orchestrator:workflow:run` action so that users select a target entity and receive navigation links on the template completion page after a workflow runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To allow users to select a target entity and receive navigation links on the template completion page after running a workflow, configure a scaffolder template with a catalog entity picker and output links for the `orchestrator:workflow:run` action.
```

          ui:field: EntityPicker
----
+
The `EntityPicker` field renders a searchable dropdown that lists available catalog entities.
+
The selected value is returned as a catalog entity reference string (for example, `component:default/my-service`), which you can pass directly to the `target_entity` input (for example, `${{ parameters.targetEntity }}` or `${{ parameters.target_entity }}`).
+
Optionally, use `ui:options.catalogFilter` to limit which catalog entities users can select:
+
[source,yaml]
----
targetEntity:
  title: Target Entity
  type: string
  description: Select the catalog entity to associate with this workflow run.
  ui:field: EntityPicker
  ui:options:
    catalogFilter:
      kind: Component
----

. In the `steps` section, pass the selected entity to the `target_entity` input of the `orchestrator:workflow:run` action:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  steps:
    - id: runWorkflow
      name: Run the workflow
      action: orchestrator:workflow:run
      input:
        workflow_id: <your_workflow_id>
        target_entity: ${{ parameters.targetEntity }}
        parameters:
          name: ${{ parameters.name }}
----
+

> Where:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where:
```

+
`workflow_id`::: Replace `<your_workflow_id>` with the ID of the serverless workflow to run.

> `target_entity`::: The action resolves this value from the entity picker selection. Use a catalog entity reference in `kind:namespace/name` form (for example, `component:default/my-service`). Other formats can produce incorrect output URLs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`target_entity`::: The action resolves this value from the entity picker selection. Use a catalog entity reference in `kind:namespace/name` format (for example, `component:default/my-service`). Other formats can produce incorrect output URLs.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: +
[NOTE]
====
If you do not provide the `target_entity` input, the output links default to using the template's own entity reference.
====

. In the `output` section, add links that reference the action's output variables:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  output:
    links:
      - title: Open workflow run
        url: ${{ steps.runWorkflow.output.instanceUrl }}
      - title: Open Workflows tab
        url: ${{ steps.runWorkflow.output.catalogEntityUrl }}
      - title: View all workflows
        url: ${{ steps.runWorkflow.output.orchestratorWorkflowsUrl }}
----
+
These links appear on the template completion page after the workflow finishes. For more information about the available output variables, see xref:orchestrator-workflow-run-action-outputs_{context}[].

.Verification

. In {product-short}, navigate to *Create* and select your scaffolder template.
. Use the entity picker to select a target entity and complete the template form.
. On the completion page, verify that the output links are displayed and navigate to the correct pages.

[NOTE]
====
If the `target_entity` input is not provided, the output links default to using the template's own entity reference.

> ====

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
